with smart completion IntelliJ IDEA
allows you to filter the basic
completion list for only those types and
keywords which are applicable within the
surrounding context let's see how that
works when you invoke smart completion
in a variable initializer or assignment
statement by pressing control shift
space it will enumerate those references
with a matching type signature which
here are all methods from this view if I
invoke smart completion a second time it
will pull in those collections lists and
arrays where it thinks an element will
match that type signature finally if we
invoke smart type one last time it will
apply the dot operator to each of those
first order smart type completions
followed by another smart type
completion so it effectively composes
smart type with smart type giving you
all method references in fields whose
signature matches the expected type in
the return statement now a few more
areas where smart completion can be
applied parameter lists so what I'm
calling a function I can invoke smart
completion for each of the parameters
that I'm passing into that function and
you'll notice something special about
the order of these entries you'll see
that they're not in lexicographic order
because smart type not only tries to
match the type but also the variables
given name in the parameter list smart
completion is also applicable in the
return statement of a method so when you
type return and invoke smart completion
again it'll only display those entries
whose type matches the given constraint
and in each of these situations you can
apply smart completion more than once to
get all of the second-order chain
completions with the correct return type
finally you can apply smart completion
after the new keyword when you're
declaring an object